Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans:
to store and retrieve data efficiently and use different data structure for different situations to fit our need

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Ans:
Compiler Design,
Operating System,
Database Management System,
Statistical analysis package,
Numerical Analysis,
Graphics,
Artificial Intelligence,
Simulation


what is an Array?
Ans:
An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.
The length of an array is established when the array is created.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans:
Difference between array and arraylist in java  include eight points namely Resizable, Performance, Traversal ,
Primitives , Length , Type-Safety, Adding elements , Multi-dimensional.

what is LinkedList?
Ans:
A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object. Each element (we will call it a node)
of a list is comprising of two items - the data and a reference to the next node. The last node has a reference to null.

what is queue?
Ans:
The java.util.Queue interface is a subtype of the java.util.Collection interface.
It represents an ordered list of objects just like a List , but its intended use is slightly different.
A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.

what is stack?
Ans:
Search Results
A stack is a data structure that allows data to be inserted (a 'push' operation), and removed (a 'pop' operation).
Many stacks also support a read ahead (a 'peek' operation), which reads data without removing it.
A stack is a LIFO-queue, meaning that the last data to be inserted will be the first data to be removed.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans:
FIFO means first-in-first-out
LIFO means last-in-first-out

what is the order of complexity?
Ans:
Generally, the smaller the order of complexity of the program's underlying algorithm,
the faster it will run and the better it will scale as the input gets larger.
Thus, we should often seek more efficient algorithms in order to reduce the order of complexity.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans:
if the element we are searching for is the first element in the array

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans:
if the element we are searching for is the last element in the array

what is tree in data structure?
Ans:
In computer science, a tree is a widely used abstract data type (ADT)—or data structure implementing this ADT—that
simulates a hierarchical tree structure, with a root value and subtrees of children with a parent node, represented
as a set of linked nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
Ans:
A graph data structure consists of a finite (and possibly mutable) set of vertices or nodes or points, together with a
set of unordered pairs of these vertices for an undirected graph or a set of ordered pairs for a directed graph.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Ans:

Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications,
as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones.
Hashtable does not allow null keys or values. HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.
One of HashMap's subclasses is LinkedHashMap, so in the event that you'd want predictable iteration order
(which is insertion order by default), you could easily swap out the HashMap for a LinkedHashMap.
This wouldn't be as easy if you were using Hashtable.


What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

RDBMS = Array (i.e. Array of structures)
Network data model = Graph
Hierarchical data model = Trees

How HashMap works in java?
Ans:
get(key): HashMap uses Key Object's hashcode to find out bucket location and then call keys.equals() method to identify
correct node in LinkedList and return associated value object for that key in Java HashMap. Consider HashMap as just an
array of objects.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Ans:
This exception is thrown when you try to access an array item that doesn't exist for example if your array size is set
to 5, you can store up to 5 elements from index numbers 0-4. If you try to access an element that is not 0-4, that is
when this exception will be thrown.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Ans:
creating a third array and copying the contents of both arrays into that one
using an arraylist
concat array's as long as the end array has enough space etc.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Ans:
t's easier to store data of different sizes in a linked list. An array assumes every element is exactly the same size.
As you mentioned, it's easier for a linked list to grow organically. An array's size needs to be known ahead of time,
or re-created when it needs to grow.
Shuffling a linked list is just a matter of changing what points to what. Shuffling an array is more complicated and/or
takes more memory.
As long as your iterations all happen in a "foreach" context, you don't lose any performance in iteration.


What is DFS and BFS?
Ans:
DFS (Depth First Search) and BFS (Breadth First Search) are search algorithms used for graphs and trees.


What is Recursion?
Ans:
Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.
A method that uses this technique is recursive. Many programming problems can be solved only by recursion,
and some problems that can be solved by other techniques are better solved by recursion.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Ans:
Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm. Big O specifically
describes the worst-case scenario, and can be used to describe the execution time required or the space used (e.g. in
memory or on disk) by an algorithm.


Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Ans:
Array Sorting Algorithms
Algorithm 	            Time Complexity
	                     Best 	        Average 	    Worst
Quicksort 	            O(n log(n)) 	O(n log(n)) 	O(n^2)
Mergesort 	            O(n log(n)) 	O(n log(n)) 	O(n log(n))
Timsort 	            O(n) 	        O(n log(n)) 	O(n log(n))
Heapsort 	            O(n log(n)) 	O(n log(n)) 	O(n log(n))
Bubble Sort 	        O(n) 	        O(n^2) 	        O(n^2)
Insertion Sort 	        O(n) 	        O(n^2) 	        O(n^2)
Selection Sort 	        O(n^2)  	    O(n^2) 	        O(n^2)
Tree Sort 	            O(n log(n)) 	O(n log(n)) 	O(n^2)
Shell Sort 	            O(n log(n)) 	O(n(log(n))^2) 	O(n(log(n))^2)
Bucket Sort 	        O(n+k) 	        O(n+k) 	        O(n^2)
Radix Sort          	O(nk) 	        O(nk) 	        O(nk)
Counting Sort 	        O(n+k) 	        O(n+k)      	O(n+k)
Cubesort 	            O(n) 	        O(n log(n)) 	O(n log(n))

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
